[Music]
Dear teacher, parents, and
all of you, in
today's society, the wish of
parents for their children is
that their children always strive to
grow and mature.  However, the
time they spend with their children is
actually quite limited because the demands of making a
living and the
daily work consume
so much of their time.  Besides, young people
today often immerse themselves in a
square-shaped world.  Why is it called a
square world?  It's about being immersed in smartphones
and computer screens; there are so
many captivating things that it's
easy to get hooked and very
likely to fall into temptation.  Therefore,
today's seminar is an opportunity for
us to share and
listen to the words
of our guests, so that
we can harmonize the lives
of parents and students, and
help students
find the right direction
and path
for a long future
ahead.  Therefore, on
behalf of all the parents and
students, I would like to express our
sincere gratitude to you for taking the time
to attend today's event.  Could you please give her
another handprint, please?
Yes.  "Well, teacher, the
first question I want you to answer is about things
I've
experienced in the past when I was in school. When I came
home, I had
many friends and could share
many things with them. However, when I got home and
met my parents, I suddenly
felt like I didn't want to say anything or
share anything. I suddenly
felt very difficult to open up about the
things I encountered in
school and in class."  So, could you please
explain to me
what these situations are and how
to overcome them?  Does
anyone here feel the same way
?  "Excuse me, teacher, I'm sure there are many other students like
that."  Then I invite you to share it
with the other students.
Om Mani Padme Hum, the Buddha Shakyamuni.
First of all, I would like to extend my greetings to the
homeroom teacher, all the
parents present here
today, and all the
students.  Wishing you and your students much
success in your teaching and learning endeavors.
Wishing all families and parents of
students a happy family life and that their
children will be joyful and harmonious.  To answer the
MC's question, I would like to share my
personal opinion.  Because I am also
a mother and have raised my own children from a
young age, I understand
this psychological aspect of motherhood.
And through my studies in
Buddhism, I will share this with the
parents of the students first, and then
with the students themselves.
Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to
have a common voice with our children,
we must put ourselves in their shoes, understanding
their thoughts and feelings.
I have to truly identify myself with
them.  That means I have to
revert to the age I was at when
they were the same age in order to handle
this situation.  For example, students
in grades 7, 8, and 9 are
starting from a young age, meaning, as the elders
say, they are grown up but not yet wise,
not quite grown up but not
quite young either.
Combined with this new era, children
receive information from many different sources,
which affects their psychological and emotional
development.  As children's psychological and emotional
development progresses, we should understand them by first learning from
ourselves.  As my psychological and emotional
development progresses, what do I become interested in?
Firstly, both men and women enjoy
looking at each other.  Even at this age, kids already
enjoy looking at each other.  So, based on what
I've learned, I need to
talk to my children about it.  Because
children are starting to enjoy stories
like that too.  So I will grasp
this and I will talk to
my children through things like asking them about their
studies so that it doesn't become dry and
boring for them.
When parents want something from their children, they
become, well,
jailers.  That's how the jailer treats
you kids.  Have you done your homework? Have you studied?
How did you get today? What's your conduct grade
?  These are the questions parents ask their
children.  But that's something you
absolutely wouldn't like to hear, would it,
kids?  That's it, I never want to hear
those things again.  Instead of asking questions
like that, what should parents ask when they see their child
?  Did you have fun at school today
?
This question will create a connection
between mother and child, between father and child,
making the child feel comfortable.  So, did you have a
fun day at school today
?  Or does anyone have a
memorable quote for their child today
?  That's what the kids care about most.
For example, during a school day from morning to afternoon, there's bound to be a
saying that makes an impression
on you.  So, you often
use those sayings when telling stories
to each other, right?  That's why
children have so many
impressive phrases when communicating with friends.  So,
when interacting with friends like that,
parents might ask about this impressive statement,
and then they'll ask another question like, "
What do you think about
this statement?" or "What are your feelings about it?" or
depending on how you interact
with your child daily, you can ask questions. After your child
answers, you can respond
well, but you
can also add your own opinion, like two
friends discussing something intimately. This
can bridge the gap between you and your child
because I've
used this method when
teaching my own child, and the results have been very good.  If
parents are always the primary point of contact, then the child will
no longer seek out external sources for
communication.  Because it is itself a
place where it can learn, exchange, and
share so much.  Therefore, it prefers
talking to me rather than talking to its
friends.  Because when our children
talk about this with us, the next day when
they go to class, they have that
knowledge and they can
talk to others, and naturally,
our children's understanding will
surpass theirs.  That's how I got their attention, and from then on,
my importance
in my child's mind increased.
That means my child will always feel dependent
on me.  That was the first connection
.  between parents and children.  Once the child
feels loved and relied upon,
I use all the
words of encouragement I can to support them in their
studies.  Do you feel
better now?  Then, children will
feel that their parents are friends and will always
cherish them because
they have learned so much from their parents.
Therefore, they will respect and
value their parents more, won't they,
children?  So, based on
my experience, I can also
convey this to parents when their children
want to know what they need from their
parents.  That's why children need empathy
and knowledge from their parents, which they need to
nurture during their
formative years when they
absorb information from the outside world, from social media.
Without parental support,
children will develop independently and
think for themselves.  But
this independent development is very dangerous because it allows
children to develop their thinking in accordance with their
psychological and physiological state.  That's how their psychological and physiological
development leads to thoughts that cause them to
say and do things that are completely
deviant.  So, this is a message
for parents
whose children aren't just older;
even when they're in kindergarten, parents
should already have
this kind of knowledge.  Until my children
grow up, I will never be
apart from them, and I will be able to manage
them very well. I'm also happy to understand
them, as it gives me peace of mind. The fact that they
share things with me is also reassuring
because this is my experience; I
've treated my children this way, and they
are never
distant from each other, even in the smallest things.
For example, I have two sons, but when it comes to
who they like, or how to
handle situations like liking someone
or not liking someone, I
give them advice.
And even in terms of education, I'm
very close to my children because from a young age
I understood their psychology,
and I didn't receive the same level of closeness from my parents.
I also understand
what my heart needs from my parents, just like Duc
Anh just asked.  So here I am
sharing my own experience,
and that experience has had a
very positive impact on my eldest son
.  Even when discussing how this girl is in a relationship, she's
very
obedient to her mother because the mother and daughter talk in a way that
makes the daughter feel comfortable
and the mother also feels comfortable.
I've set a foundation for
my daughter in love and work, and it's
completely comfortable without any coercion,
like two friends exchanging ideas and
consulting with each other. My younger daughter is the same;
I don't force her to fall in
love or not fall in love.  But from
my son's feelings for his girlfriend since he was little, and through our
gradual guidance, my son
didn't make the mistake of falling in love too early.
But it felt very relaxing psychologically.
So here are some of
my experiences to share with parents.
In Buddhism, this is also known as
karma.  To create an environment where my children
respect me, I must have wisdom, which means
I must have empathy and
love.  Because a person's mind is something that can
be won over; it
cannot be forced.  That's in Buddhist
teachings.  When a person's consciousness
is refined, it is this very mind that
gives rise to feelings of admiration and respect.
But no one can force a person
's mind to do anything.  You can only capture
actions on your own body.
Others cannot
conquer my mind through coercion
or force; they can conquer
my mind through my own obedience.  In other words, only when
you feel admiration for this person,
love for this person, and
reverence for this person can your heart be won over
.  Therefore, as parents, we
must win the hearts of
our children through their respect
and the love we radiate
to them.  Parents' love
for their children should be expressed through
empathy, sharing, and support.  Yes, I wish
all parents a strong bond with
their children.
Yes.  I am very grateful to
your children.  Even though I'm all grown up now,
hearing these things again makes me
realize that I've learned some
very valuable lessons.  And to
continue the program, are
there any parents here who
would like to ask me any questions?  Yes.
Please, please come in, ma'am.
Thank you for sharing your thoughts.  We
are young parents now, and since these are
mostly our first children, we have
very little experience to
share with them or to befriend
them.  But there's one problem I'm not
sure if any of you here have encountered?
But the problem with my child, for
example, is that he/she doesn't know how to
manage time; one thing gets mixed up with another,
sometimes taking a very long time to do one thing
without achieving any results.  For example, parents might be
impatient and want things to be done exactly
as they are, on time, but their
children refuse to accept it.  For
example, such
time management is very
important for the
children's studies and their lives.  So, if you have
any advice for children,
or for parents, on how to
help children manage their time or help
them manage their time independently, please
share it with me.  Thank you in advance, ma'am.
Yes.  Thank you for your question
.  Dear parents,
we must first understand our children.  That means
we have to grasp the same mindset
as the question you just asked, which is
recognizing that our children don't know how to manage their
time.  So, right now, we have to start
with the mindset of
what they are doing with their time.
This is something I have to build up little by little
.  And I will make a
plan.  For example, the time allocated for children to do certain things in the
morning, at noon, in the
afternoon, and in the evening
must follow a
specific schedule.  If
parents now still have young children, even in
kindergarten, it's much easier to discipline them.
For example, in the evening, I might ask
my child, "Honey,
what outfit will you wear to school tomorrow morning
?"
That means, while they are still young, we should instill in them a sense of responsibility
for tomorrow's work starting
today.  Then I would bring up
stories like, "Son,
is this dress pretty?" or "Is this outfit
pretty?"  Hey, yesterday when you wore
this outfit,
what did your friends think?  That means it naturally
feels responsible for what it will do tomorrow
.  He's interested in the job
tomorrow.  Those are young children.  So
when the child gets excited about
tomorrow's task, tell them, "Son, wake up and get
dressed for school."  So the kids
got excited because it was their choice
.  When she put it on, I admired her and
complimented her.  Okay, after admiring and complimenting her, they said, "Come
on, honey, your outfit is beautiful now, let's
eat and then go to school."  So, you guys
are the parents.  From such a young age,
you have to take care of your child, constantly moving
from one task to another
in this manner.  Then, when we
came home from school, because I had
a habit before, which is that our parents were
very poor when we were born.  So,
in the old days, back when we were kids, we
wore tattered and patched clothes at home, and only
wore the newer ones to school.  Now we
have to create, and I do the same for
my child in this new era where we have
sufficient finances and my child has plenty of
clothes.  I still use my heart to
educate my children.  When the child came
home from school, she would immediately say, "Honey, change out of your
school clothes. Hang them up and
put on your home clothes."  When
people see that you're wearing school clothes and your
home clothes,
they'll naturally perceive you as a
polite person, someone who knows the
difference between home and the outside world.
And in your own mind, you'll
become a polite and courteous person.
That's how I've been giving my children orders since they were
little.  Because I myself
have the feeling that when I
hang up my school clothes and then put on my
home clothes, my state of mind is
different.  So, don't let
your child be in a mess right from the
start.  It doesn't distinguish between this and
that, even from a
child's first outfit.
So I'll decide which clothes are
for home and which are for school.  Because
of this way of dressing, when
my child comes home from school wearing the
same clothes, I feel uncomfortable.  That means that
right there, you're teaching your child to organize and sort things
first.  Do you agree?  That
means we have to raise our children
like that from a young age.  Then, when it came to
my grandchildren's book writing, I had to be involved as well
.  What subject do you have tomorrow?
So I started making arrangements for her.
I've put today's lessons here, and
tomorrow's lessons are arranged on this table.
That means we have to work alongside the children to help
them develop habits,
not just force them with words.  In other words, with
young children, we shouldn't teach them, but rather accompany them.
That means all my work
involves working with young children.  From organizing
books to cleaning dirty or clean school bags, I
always have to wipe them down, and along with them come
stories.  That means we have to become
friends with the children from a young age.  But now that
the children have grown up like this,
they've already been instilled with a habit.
So now it's mandatory, meaning either the mother
or the father must dedicate time, and both parents
must take turns accompanying the
children, from the smallest things like choosing clothes for them to wear
to school the next morning.  Let the children
choose their clothes and hang them on the hangers so they can wear them
to school tomorrow morning.  This means we must let the children
learn to take care of themselves, to organize their own affairs, and to
find joy in all their
activities.  Then I can help
my grandchild prepare books for him/her, and I can
sort out and throw
away these disorganized papers.  That means letting it become
a habit to see
this neatness.  In other words, seeing order and a
systematic approach becomes a habit, so if things
become messy later on, people will naturally
feel uncomfortable.  Parents, please
remember this point.  In other words, we must instill in
our children a habit rooted in
Buddhism, which is called the practice of guiding the mind.  That is,
to allow it to become accustomed to something, to feel familiar with it, to feel
comfortable with it.  As for
things that it hasn't been accustomed to and has
abandoned, when it behaves in that way,
it feels uncomfortable and will no longer
behave that way.  In Buddhism, what is cultivated is
called habitual behavior.  So, that
means we have to create
new habits, new perspectives, and
new ways of thinking in our children, completely replacing their
old ways of thinking.  That's
similar to how women and
young men
always
get dressed, look in the mirror, and comb their hair before going out.  That's what it's like to
become a habit.
Therefore, in all aspects of
our children's lives, it is essential for
us parents to dedicate time to supporting
them.  No
matter how much wealth we possess in this world
, no matter how much we leave to them
, nothing is as valuable as instilling in
them good habits.  There, they
will correct themselves and they will be
seen in relation to these positive things
for them.  And what is the most important thing in
Buddhism?  If we
instill good habits in our children, they
will attract good friends, and
their karma will be transformed
precisely because we create
these good habits for them.  When its karma
transforms, good friends will
come to it.  The aware friend comes
to it.  If we allow
our children to become undisciplined,
neglecting their duties and
lacking responsibility, the
resulting consequences will lead them to
associate with undesirable elements.  There.
Then it will affect the
happy lives of our children, who will end up
choosing the wrong person.  Because
in Buddhism there is both primary and secondary retribution.
If my own karma is
positive, I will attract positive
influences from my surroundings, from relationships to
all my business endeavors and even my
future intellect, all of which will develop according to
this karma.  So, this is also
practical knowledge from
my mother's life, combined
with the principle of karma in Buddhism, and we
hope that parents will truly
support their children so that society will
become a better place.  Because society is the
result of each individual.  That is also the
hope that parents will be happy with
their children.
Yes.  Yes, thank you, ma'am.  The following
are the questions that have already been
answered.  First question.  Dear
Ms. Yen, my son is very stubborn and often
disobeys me.  I just like to do what
I want without caring whether my
parents agree or not.  I'm very
worried that my child isn't mature enough to make
such decisions on their own.  What should I do
?  I hope you can help me.  Has
anyone here been in a similar situation
?  Is there anyone here who
likes to do whatever
they want?  Is that possible?  Then, if
any of you have the information, let's listen together to see
how she shares and explains it.  Yes.   I would like to
invite you in, ma'am.
Dear
friends, since this question was asked of a
Buddhist, I, Yen, would like to
convey to parents
and students the way to transform
it.  So, what kind of karmic connection is it, and
how does it transform?  First, there's the karmic connection
between the parents, and then the karmic connection between the children.
And if this situation is allowed to continue,
what will the consequences be, and how can we transform it
?  Because this
is already the result right now.  The child always does things
their own way, not their
parents'.  As parents, you
should address this issue immediately.  That way,
we can talk to our children and let them hear us
.  Because of cause, condition, and effect.  If,
in a previous life, I had a stubborn nature and
never listened to anyone,
then fate would have caused me to have
children like that.  And the consequence
is that I have to endure the fact that my children
always go against my wishes and do what
they want.  So, in Buddhism, there is the principle of
cause and effect.  So now,
following this principle of cause and effect to bring about
transformation, the parents begin to make a vow to
listen.  In Buddhism,
we often say things like, "I respectfully
ask the Buddha, I believe in cause and effect."  Now my child is
disobeying me.  Therefore, I now
make a vow to change
this karmic consequence.  So when you make
such a vow, the elders begin to make vows
about having a father and a mother.  Therefore,
these parents must listen to
and obey
their own parents' opinions.  If
this opinion is good, wholesome, and positive, then
you must first create a cause and effect, which
is the cause and effect of obedience.  That applies to
parents.  The same applies to siblings;
we should listen to them.  And
when my siblings say something right, I
listen and obey so that
I can dedicate this merit to
my children.  And the way the husband and wife treat each other is the same
.  Husbands must listen to
their wives, and wives must listen to their husbands.  And the two of
them must submit to what is
good and right so that they can dedicate this merit
to their child.  That means we are transforming the
cause and effect.  When I started to understand cause and
effect, and began to put that into practice, only then could
I begin to think about teaching my children
effectively.  So when teaching
your children, if they make mistakes, don't
scold them.  First, if you want to teach
your children a lesson, when they behave like that, don't
scold them.  When children do
something on their own and the result is
n't good, then we should immediately use
that negative outcome to
analyze it.  Do it like this.
This is what I think.  So, I
did it, and this is the result.
If you ask your father or mother,
they will show you this way, and if
you do it, you will get a better result.
So, in the same situation, if
you want a better outcome, of
course, going out with your friends will make you
smarter.  See, I'm smarter.
Once you become smarter, people will
listen to you.  Well, ladies and gentlemen,
Yen has already taught her child about
this issue.  When the child has
immediate reactions.  When someone says something,
my child reacts immediately.  Then Yen
also told her child, "
Now that you're starting to communicate, I
agree that I'll always let you speak
first."  Mom, let me speak first, then I'll
speak later.  This will make the children
feel comfortable.  That means we let them
speak first.  So, after you've said it,
tell your child to say it first, and then you can
analyze it.  Okay, Mom will analyze it.  So, I think the
person who speaks later will have a better analysis than the
person who spoke earlier, or the person who spoke earlier will have a
better analysis than the person who spoke later.  So, let
the children feel that the person who speaks after the
analysis will be better than the person who
spoke before, will be more insightful, and
in this way, they will transform themselves and learn from
you.  So, when it comes to children acting on their own initiative,
you have to be patient and do
things like this.  Gradually,
our children will learn to listen.  This means
that you have to accompany
your children for one year, two years, three years, four years; it's
not something that
can be achieved instantly.  From there, the
children will become more focused and their
thinking will develop better.
This development of thinking skills allows children
to develop in many aspects,
not just in their
interactions with their parents.  Yes.  I'd like to offer
my personal opinion on this question
for parents and children.
Yes.  So, next, I'd
like to invite all the parents to ask
any questions they may have. We can all
ask them together with me.  I kindly invite all
students or anyone with questions to
ask them so that I can answer them
directly.
Hello Ms. Yen, hello to
all the parents and children.  As Ms.
Yen and all the parents and
children know, nowadays almost every
family has a
smart TV.  The other thing is that they also have
one or two mobile phones,
smartphones with internet connectivity.  As far as
I know, nowadays,
outside of school hours, many children spend their time
watching TV, connecting to the internet,
or
watching news and playing
video games on their smartphones.  So, according to Ms.
Yen, since she also has two grandsons,
they probably make
similar mistakes. What methods
can she use to pull them away from smart TVs
and smartphones, encouraging them to integrate, socialize,
and participate in other
family and social activities?  I have nothing more to say.
Yes.  Thank you for your
question, parent.  During the time I had
children, when they were growing up, it was the early days when
these video games first appeared.  Indeed, when my eldest grandson
was in fifth grade, he took money from his
parents and went to the arcade to play video games, which
was quite unusual for us at the time.
Although parents discuss this with their children, the
kids really enjoy this game.  That's
why the children lie, and
my husband and I suffer a lot because of
this, so I really sympathize with the
parents.  So, when that period passed, it
meant that the family mentality at
that time was that parents assigned different roles to supervise their children
.  Assigning tasks like taking the child to and from school, then
searching in various places, took
almost a year to complete the task of exchanging the peach blossoms.  Even
though my child
still loves me when I find out, so they cried
, apologized, and made promises, at those
moments, my heart was filled with love
for my child.  I tried everything I could
to get her out of that place, but there was no way I could get her to leave.
At that moment, in the present, I
had two options.  The first way is for me to take my
grandchild to the temple, and the second way is for me to
immediately buy a
computer.  Let the
children play directly at home.  Because when
they play at home, I can supervise
them, and if they don't go outside to
play, I can rest
assured that they are staying home with me.  So
all the games are ones I let my grandchildren play,
and since they have their own room,
they can play in there.  Then,
after the children played with me, they realized
I empathized with them,
and that's when they accepted me. If I had strictly forbidden them from playing, it wouldn't have worked
.  So, dear
parents, you
should also be involved with your children in this process.  Whether
it's playing or watching, parents
must be present with their children.  For example, if
I agree with it, it
won't press the button for me anymore.  If I
let it play, it won't press the buttons against
me.  But if we don't play along
with them, they'll secretly join in,
and then we'll create a situation where
young parents become gamers themselves.
Parents should also become
gamers.  Parents also need to be present with their children
during smartphone conversations or whatever similar situations arise;
parents must be involved.
But I have to be really skillful.
In this game, I will figure
out what I should and shouldn't learn and tell my child what they should
learn.  And in
this game, I'll say something like, "
Son, this is a riddle for you from your dad or mom," and then I'll ask you
what the author is trying to convey to us.  So, in that part,
we will guide our children towards
our own way of thinking—our kind thinking
, our conscious thinking,
our responsible thinking—and help them
become people who use
social media as a reference to learn from
experience, rather than being completely absorbed in
it.  Therefore, parents need to have
the time.  These days, parents often
focus too much on their children's business ventures and too
much on money
.  Therefore,
parents have to sacrifice everything they no longer pay attention to, including their child's thoughts and feelings
.  For example, if
I have plans to hang out with friends, I have to put them on hold
.  Except for business relationships
.  Friends should go out and
hang out.  I have to sacrifice
that and spend time with my child, be there
for my child.  And ideally,
you should choose a class where a few
parents and their children get along well and play
together.  As parents, you
should play together.  You guys will call
each other and you'll create
these family games
together.  Then, naturally, the children will get along well
within the loving embrace of their parents.
We could create a situation where today
is Sunday or a day
off, and these parents and their children
get together to eat, drink, and
have fun, creating opportunities for them to go
out together.  That
's a very good environment for children to
develop because they will have
friends, and by creating those
relationships for them, we can positively monitor
their friendships
.  This
is just my personal opinion to share
with parents.  And
what is the purpose of this in Buddhism?  Regarding cause,
condition, and effect.  In other words, when our children
see their parents interacting
with each other, they learn
our moral values.  Our moral values ​​are like a
seed sown in the hearts of our children, and
they will learn how to behave accordingly
.
Let the children treat each other in their
friendships.  This one is the best
.  That way, we're creating a truly positive karmic outcome
for the children.  Yes.  Amitabha Buddha
.
Yes.  So, to continue,
we'll be weaving a little bit.  Here
's a question that I'm sure many
students will be wondering about
.  Dear teacher, I am a
student.  Previously, I went to school and played
with my classmates normally,
but lately they've suddenly
become jealous and envious of me.  I'm
very sad and also feel scared being
isolated like this.  I don't want to go to
school anymore.  I don't know why
they treated me like that and
what I should do.  I hope you will
teach me.
Dear friends and dear
parents.
The fact that our children are
being isolated in class is a very serious problem,
isn't it, kids?  Right?  If your friends
don't play with you, do you feel like something is
bothering you?  Based on
Yen's Facebook messages, there are
many students in this age group.  From middle school
to high school, it's very crowded.  After Yen
shared this with her friends, they couldn't
share it with their parents, so they
went to Facebook and messaged, "Teacher, I
really want to transfer schools. I
don't want to go to school anymore. I've tried my
best, but my classmates
still look down on me and despise me. Even though I've
apologized, they still turn their backs on me."
These are the kinds of questions that are
very difficult for them to
answer and handle.
Dear
friends, Yen also
advises parents,
and sends a message to the
homeroom teachers: homeroom
teachers must understand the
current situation of students and
create
a supportive environment for parents.
Parents should be close
to each other and should create a
fun environment for their children.  For example,
in a group, if six
parents play together, then
these four children will have the opportunity to play
together.  Because they are close, they
share.  Sharing fosters empathy,
so our children won't feel left out.  See,
my child isn't isolated in
this classroom.  So, that's why the
parents come to visit each other.  And
when you're already isolated, when
you're already isolated, don't try to get
close to other people right away.
Do you understand?  When you're being isolated by your friends,
don't try your best to make them treat
you well.  At that point, the students will
shift their focus, concentrating
on their studies to improve their academic performance
.  She also has an experience from when
she was in her final year of 10th grade;
she had a close-knit group of five or six
friends.  And then, naturally,
she and her best friend
had a disagreement.  When they
have disagreements, she
usually doesn't say anything, but the
other person tends to speak up.  You
told your friends, and she was officially
isolated.  So, she's officially been
isolated too.  At that moment, she didn't try to
explain herself to this person, didn't
try to explain herself to that person, and
said nothing.  And she focused on her studies.
When you focus all your attention on
studying, your academic performance really
improves.  Once you turn it on, those friends
around you won't see you badmouthing
them.  I didn't see myself defending myself, I
didn't see myself speaking ill of others, and I treated them
normally.  That relationship got back
together after more than a month, and it's back to being very
good.  It was this very friend—the one who, much
later, when she was almost finished with 12th grade, the
one who was so close to her, the one who
caused the conflict with her—she
gave her a diary, and she
read through all of her feelings, her
anxieties,
her regrets about her.  That's why she was able to
maintain that friendship for the rest of her life, and
even now, they are still
very good friends.
So when you're isolated like that,
don't try to force it.  Don't try to explain
or
justify yourself because they
don't understand.  So, if I live well for
a while, a month or two, you
'll understand.  Do you all agree, kids
?  But the children never feel the need to
run to their friends.
I can still go to school alone, and I
can still do everything else while
focusing on my studies.  That's the best way
for the children to get out of
this situation.  Children should share this
with their parents by saying, "Dad, Mom,
Mom, right now in class I have
these things to do, this and that."  So,
after learning about this,
how should parents handle the situation
?  Parents see who the other
parents in their class are.  So,
in your class, you should call
and share information with one, two, or three
people.  Then you'll see your parents; this
is how parents would handle the situation.  Then the
parents will call one, two, or three other
parents from that group.  Then you will go to each other's
parents' houses to play together.  Then you
can invite the parents to
your house.  So, parents will work
together to talk to their children and
help them make a few friends
first, so that their children can overcome
feelings of isolation.  Because
the isolation in
this day and age often leads
to negative traits in our children, which
can cause them to become pessimistic, their
studies to suffer, and them to engage in bad behavior,
right, my children?  Parents also hope
to support their children when they encounter
such circumstances.  In the Buddhist concept of cause and effect,
parents should also cultivate
this cause.  Before their children fall
into the trap of isolation,
parents should forgive in their behavior within the family, in their interactions, and in all matters
.  That means
parents should forgive anyone who makes mistakes.
Parents should share in the suffering of others, so that they can dedicate this virtue
to their children.  And as for you
students, if you don't want to be
isolated like this, then you should also,
or often do, forgive someone who makes a mistake
first.  Do you understand
?  Then you guys would never find yourselves
in a situation like this.  That
's the principle of cause and effect in Buddhism;
you should call it cultivating virtue and accumulating merit, and
blessings will come to you.  Amitabha Buddha
.
Yes.  Here's another question from the
student.   The
next topic is one that
many of you are probably interested in.  It's a
love story.   Is
anyone here interested?  Really
?
He just said he's sending love messages to
you guys.
Excuse me, teacher, I have a question. I'm a
student, but I've already fallen in love
.
My thinking is more mature than that of my
peers.  My child is also more independent than their
peers.  I think that's
why I always try to balance my
studies and my relationship so that it doesn't affect my
academic performance.  I do
n't think there's anything wrong with that.  I wanted to talk
to you about this because I don't want to hide
anything from you, but I'm afraid you won't
understand me, won't trust me, and will
forbid it.  I would like to ask for
your advice, teacher.  Thank you, teacher.   Are there
many students sitting here who are in this situation
?
Some people have it and some don't,
right?
So now I will share this issue with you
.  Loving someone isn't a bad thing.  Loving
it is a feeling that comes from within each of
us, right?  Now we will distinguish
this kind of love.  Do you love your grandparents?
Is it bad?
Do you love your parents?   Have
.
Is it bad?
Is it possible to love your friends?   Have
.
Is it bad?   Have
Not bad.  Loving your friends is something you should do,
right?
There.  So,
how do we show our love for our friends at each age?  So,
do you see that there are close friends and
not-so-close friends?  So, do
you want this best friend to be just your best friend and
only you?   Yes
.  Right?  I have
this friend, and I want this friend to be close only to
me.  So, if this friend is
close to someone else, I don't
like it, right?
This best friend is actually love, something you
cherish.
Did you notice?  Today
she'll clearly express her feelings.
Sometimes you just fall in love
without realizing
what kind of love it is.  First, it was a
kind of affection, fondness.  And then you want
that affection to be exclusively yours,
so it turns into love,
right?  Because who would want
my love to be with everyone?   Are
not.  Right?  First, it was
my own feeling, then it progressed to a feeling that was
exclusively mine, so it turned into
love.  So let me
figure this out: today you guys came to class to
play, and you like this person, so you
know what this is?  It's just a friendship, okay?  In other words, if you
like someone, then you
call it friendship.  And a
person who sees everyone
around them as indifferent will
also find it difficult to form friendships.  So,
starting tomorrow when you go to school, look around and see if
you like the people
around you. That way you'll know you're a person with
feelings, not someone who's indifferent,
right?  I developed feelings for you because I started to
appreciate you.  Then, that feeling turned
towards the other person and made them want to be
mine, and I realized that I had a
separate kind of love.  Understood?   Is that
correct?  So, now that we've discovered
love, we need to start
figuring out how to handle this love.
Do you understand?
So, since you're going to school like this, if you have
a significant other that
you cherish, I'm going to show
you how to love them.
These girls want to fall in love, so I'll guide them on
how to love.
Right?  Would you like to?
Okay, so here's the thing:
the question is about balancing
love and studying.  Now, I
'll tell you about my childhood too
.  She'll tell the whole story about
them, and I don't know what to say to the boys and girls
.  Let's see if
that feeling is similar to how she felt back then
.
Now, let's ask the girls first.
Because she used to be my female friend.  She also asked
the girls first, "Back when I was in school,
when there was a boy who was a good student, I really
liked him."  Do you girls feel the same way
?   Do
you find that if
someone excels at a particular skill,
you tend to like them?  Is that so?  There you go.
Remember this so the guy knows what the
girl likes about him.  When a girl
has a male friend who is good at studying, she
will develop feelings for him.  Hey
guys, did you know?  Because if I
want to possess them, I have to know
how to possess them, right?  Otherwise, no matter how much
you like someone, they won't
like you back because you don't have the qualities
that make them like you.  Guys, is
that clear?  Do you understand?  That means the
girl really likes him, and the boy is a good student.
Therefore, if you want to win over a
girl, or if a girl likes you, you need to be a
good student
.  You must have the characteristic of being academically
gifted.  Therefore, the more you want to
attack the other person, the better you need to study
.   Is that clear
?  Otherwise, the girl would
n't like it.
Because girls like guys for their
intelligence, you know.  I really like
intelligent men.  Intelligence isn't just about being
academically gifted anymore; it's about appreciating
kindness and compassion—that's what we
call a true gentleman.  A gentleman is
a person who is a true gentleman.  That
means this girl likes a guy who is
easygoing and not petty.
Do you understand?
That means knowing how to forgive and knowing how to speak with the respect
due to adults.  Girls like
guys like that.  Because of the nature that gives birth to
women, she will talk about karma
in Buddhism.  Why are males created
?  Why were we born female?  Then
women know how to win over men,
and men know how to win over
women.  Do you understand?
Those who are born with the destiny of being
female often possess
qualities similar to those of the betel nut and betel leaf
plants.  The areca palm represents the male,
while the betel vine represents the female entwining herself around
the male.  That means women always
want men to protect them.
Do you understand?  To provide protection requires
intelligence and a generous heart, my friends.
Even the
most arrogant female friend would be won over by this
philosophy.  Have you clarified this for me?
There.  So, if you have
love, your studies will
improve, and then you will have love.  But
if your studies
suffer, you will lose your love.
Understood?  There.  And what's even more important is that
this male friend needs to learn ethics.
Do you understand?  We must learn morality, which means
learning how to behave ourselves.
The girl should somehow feel like she is polite and well-
mannered.  Do women prefer a
polite and well-mannered man, or a
boisterous and reckless one
?   Polite
.  Remember that, everyone.  A
male friend who acts like a jerk, who talks nonsense and is
low-class, who talks
rubbish wherever he goes, and who is ignorant and foolish, will find it hard to
like a
beautiful or intelligent female friend. That's
just a
fleeting desire. Therefore, if
you
want a good friendship or a
loving relationship, you
must study hard, be intelligent, and
learn how to behave.  Do you understand?  You have to
become a decent person, then
no matter which girl you like,
you'll be able to
win her over.  Do you understand?  What about the
girls?   The same goes for
girls; of course, as
girls, you should know how to apply makeup.
Although she didn't have a daughter, she
remembered that year she was about six years old
.  She has an older sister who is 8
years older than her.  So this is how your father taught your sister
.  Girls should have a slender waist.
She only listened in.  Only then will I be able to be
beautiful later.  Then I had to crawl along.
I need to learn how to crawl too.  That's how
her father taught her older sister.  And the very next day
she took that scarf, kids.
She's going to share her personal story
with you all.  She took the scarf
and tied it around her waist
to give her a hourglass figure, girls
.  That's how it was, and from a young age she knew how to
moderate her eating habits.  Don't let it get
too fat!  In other words,
taking care of one's appearance is innate for
women, and they simply cannot do without
makeup.  But the kind of charm
that makes a man fond of
you is femininity.  What can a wrench kill
?  Beauty.  For example, a
male friend might think a female friend is very beautiful,
but then he might say things to her in a negative way
.  Do the guys like it?
Do guys like girls? Yes, do they like them
?
Hey, the girl who said that to the guy is me.   And
what about the girl? She's a boy, okay?   The
teacher will analyze the two female friends
and see which one the boys like the most
.  "Hey, come here, I want to tell you something." "What did you want to tell me?"
is one way of responding.  And the
second way to answer is, what did you call me, you
idiot?
Which girl would you fall in love with?
Of course, you should appreciate friends who know how to
behave.  And going out with someone who
knows how to behave makes me look good,
right?  When I go out with a friend who
knows how to behave, I always end up with someone like
this.  She only said this much.  I have
a female friend who is well-behaved, and
another guy who also hangs out with a
female friend.  Your friend's girlfriend doesn't know how to
behave.  I'll naturally feel proud.
Because the other side would be
judged negatively, right guys?
Although the children are very young, because they are
beginning to experience romantic feelings, I
share my knowledge with them
so they know how to choose friends and
how to find someone who truly
shares their life with them.
Do you all agree?
Because if loving you means I want to possess you and have you all to
myself, then I have to have a
private conversation with you, right?  When I have a
private conversation, of course
I prefer it to be easy to
listen to.  Nobody likes it when two people
call each other and start arguing,
right?  So, this is the
answer, and also the way she mentally
navigated her youth, which she's sharing with
you guys.  I hope you all
learn from this, and that you will always
show filial piety towards your parents.
Do you understand?  Because, you see, if
a boy and a
girl lie to their parents,
they will only be lying to themselves
.  Do you understand?
Do you understand, kids?
So, if this boy often lies to his parents, and
this girl often lies to her parents, then this
boy and this girl will be ready to lie to
me.  You guys understand that part, okay?  As for
this guy or girl, if they are
genuine, they will be genuine with me.
That way, the kids will form
lasting friendships.  Actually, that kind of love that ends in
school will stay with you for the
rest of your life, kids.  That
teenage love, though naive,
was just a fleeting feeling.
Do you understand?  But they mistook it
for love, yet it will stay with them
for the rest of their lives.  Therefore,
you should cultivate
truly wonderful and noble friendships.
You will keep it with you for the rest of your lives; it will be
a source of encouragement and comfort, and something you will
remember later.  I wish you all the best in
finding truly good friends
.
Yes.  Okay, let's continue with a
question that will probably be even
more familiar to you all.  Excuse me, teacher, I
am a mischievous and hyperactive student.
The child often talks during class, gets
written down in the disciplinary log, gets into fights, and has
many other bad habits.
However, I've noticed that billionaires around the
world all dropped out of school and were just like me when they were young
.  So, what are your thoughts on this
?  Yes, please answer the
question.   That's a
great question.  Billionaires
around the world were all mischievous and
dropped out of school like you when they were young.  So, are there
more billionaires or
more dropouts and troublemakers in prison?
So you guys have spent
more time in prison, right?  Some
billionaires dropped out of school, and some were
mischievous kids, but
not all of them, right?  And
not all
prisoners are like that, kids.
Right?
In Buddhism, it's called karma,
kids.
Although this person's karma may involve
mischief and
lack of academic achievement, they possess a
different kind of karma: success
in business.  Do you understand?
Today, I'm going to share more about
cause and effect with you so you can understand
this point better.  That's the part where
people become billionaires.
No matter how mischievous or
how much of a dropout someone is, deep down
they all have filial piety, my children.
Do you understand?  That means children only see the
wealth of billionaires,
only see the mischievousness of
billionaires, and only hear about their mischievous antics as
children.  However, to become
a billionaire, even a
mischievous person must possess the virtue of
patience.  Do you agree?
Patience is what enabled
these billionaires to become billionaires.  But
the mischievousness of these billionaires
as children only goes in
one direction.  That means they are eager to
learn, they are eager to explore, and they see things through to the end
.  Do you understand?  There you go.  You
need to consider these factors.  Then you students
need to reconsider whether your mischievous truancy
stems from the
development of your intelligence,
your curiosity, your
patience, and
your desire for success
.  Do you understand?
This section doesn't feature billionaires
.  Scientists also have a
mindset that when they think about something,
they will work until they succeed.
Do you understand?  Is that
clear to you guys?  That means when people take a
shower, they are still in
this state of mind.  Do you understand?  That is to say,
someone who becomes a billionaire or a
scholar may have been
lazy in their studies or
made other mistakes at the time, but deep down
they always
possessed a very strong desire for success.   That
means when people do something, they see it through to the end
.  Do you understand?  And
they specialize in research,
development, and invention, not just
ordinary mischief.  Please
distinguish this point clearly.
Successful people, even if they dropped out of
school or were rebellious,
always possess a resolute spirit deep within their minds
.  In other words, whatever they do
, they do it
with the right mindset, the
determination, and the resolve to see it through to the end, and no one can stop
them.  It's not like you're a
mischievous person who'll leave this place to go
play here for a bit, then leave this place to play here for a bit, or
leave this place to do this for a bit.
Those mischievous people never
achieve success.  Do you understand?
Do you understand, kids?  So now, shouldn't you all
start cultivating the virtue of
perseverance?  For example, the assignment you
did, you need to review it now
.  When you haven't succeeded on an assignment
, don't go to sleep; keep
asking questions until you
succeed. This will help
you develop in all areas later on.  She also told
them that when she was her age and
still in school, she also had a
very firm resolve.  If
she sets aside this assignment, she'll do it; she
won't go to bed until she's finished it.  That means
you need to have that kind of enthusiasm so that
you will succeed in life, in whatever field you pursue.  Do you understand
?  But if you lack that kind of
perseverance, if you're fickle and get bored
quickly, doing something for a little while and then
immediately losing interest, then you won't
succeed in life.  Not to mention the idea of
becoming a billionaire or a scientist.  Only
those who persevere until the very end can truly
succeed.  And you
should also cultivate
such a mindset within yourselves.  Do you all agree
?  For example, when the children get home, they start
studying right away.  If you're going to sweep the house, you have to keep
sweeping until the job is done
.  Do you understand?  If you're going to
write a book now, you'll have to
write a new one.  You guys keep calling
.  In other words, if you do one thing
successfully first before
moving on to something else, you will
become successful individuals
in any field you choose.  Do you want to
become successful people
?
What do I need to do to succeed?
To succeed, you must cultivate
the habit of achieving success
in even the smallest tasks.  Do you understand
?  Only by achieving the final result
can they become successful later in life.
That's also why some people become
billionaires, scientists, and
successful individuals.
Do you understand, kids?  I wish you all
success in the future.
[music]